\section{Discussion}
\label{sec:discussion}

We have presented \sysname{}, a stream processing system achieving low latency
and high accuracy for the wide area. We then discuss \sysname{}'s limitations
and our future work.

\para{Fault-tolerance and failure recovery:} \sysname{} tolerates bandwidth
variation but not network partition or host failure. While the servers within
the DCs can handle faults as existing systems---such as Spark
Streaming~\cite{zaharia2013discretized}---do, edge clients should not be
failure-oblivious. We leave the failure detection and recovery of clients as a
future work.

\para{Profile modelling:} \sysname{} currently do not attempt to model $B(c)$
and $A(c)$. Instead it performs an exhaustive search during the profiling. While
parallelism and sampling techniques offer speed up, there are other statistical
techniques. For example, Bayesian Optimization, as demonstrated by
CherryPick~\cite{alipourfard2017cherrypick}, models black-box functions and
reduces the search time. We plan to explore this direction to improve our
profiler.

\para{Expressiveness}: Our \maybe{} APIs allow an easy integration with existing
stream processing systems. While it follows the operator model, combined with
other operators, this is expressive enough. We've presented three applications
in this paper; and we are implement more application using this framework to
understand the expressiveness better.

\para{Context detection:} Currently we perform online profiling and update the
profile entirely. Real-world data potentially follows a multi-modal
distribution. One optimization is to detect such context changes and use the
profile that best predicts in the current context (such as indoor video vs
outdoor video).

\para{Predicting bandwidth changes:} Model predict control
(MPC)~\cite{yin2015control} has been explored in video streaming to predict the
bandwidth chagnes. Our system could potentially also make predictions and adapt
according to the prediction results; this would further reduces latency;
although predictions need to be cautious for false positives.

%%% Local Variables:
%%% mode: latex
%%% TeX-master: "sosp17"
%%% End:
