\section{Introduction}
\label{sec:introduction}

Motivate how streaming data are increasing. This includes IoT sensor streams,
video surveillance and machine generated logs.

microPMU generates data at kHz.

Video surveillance increasing. IDC report~\cite{gantz2012digital} predicted
5,800 exabytes of video footage.

Large scale geo-deployed systems such as Content Distribution Network (CDN)
generates logs.

Traditional approach of aggregating data into a single point and then process is
not scalable.

Existing research Clarinet~\cite{viswanathan2016clarinet} such as
GDA~\cite{pu2015low} studies how to distribute computation onto edge devices.

JetStream~\cite{rabkin2014aggregation} explores how aggregation and degradation.
Although the programming framework provides mechanisms (APIs) that allow
applications to aggregate or degrade data streams. The specific mechanism has to
be codified in JetStream. We explore how the system can automatically adapt the
execution while still satisfying certain application guarantees (such as bounded
latency).

In wide-area, the bandwidth is not only scarce, but also varied. Applications
developed without such awareness will easily backlogged at the edge side
(hurting latency and real-time) or not fully utilizing the available resource.

JetStream uses data cube API where operations are well understood; but it's
limited to the type of query that it can answer.

We design and implement a general-purpose WAN-aware stream processing system
that adapts the application execution to available resources.

Our approach combines offline and online profiling the application to adapt to
resource (bandwidth) changes. This allows us to explore and fine-tune the
trade-off between application accuracy and system performance.

When deploying wide-area analytics applications, we envision it's common that
multiple applications, which may or may not be developed from the same party,
will run on the same worker machine. When the resources (CPU, memory and
bandwidth) are scarce, we need to properly allocate the resource to each running
application. Combined with our knowledge of the profiling information, the the
system aims to maximize the overall performance (rather than min-max fairness).

%%% Local Variables:
%%% mode: latex
%%% TeX-master: "sigcomm2017"
%%% End:
